well it's just gone 1400 GMT that's Gaza
despite International condemnation
Israel is intensifying its attacks on
residential areas in the last hour a
strike has killed 15 people at the
borage refugee camp the area had already
been reduced to Rubble was attacked
while Palestinians were trying to
recover their loved ones elsewhere the
jabalia refugee camp was attacked for a
third day in a row the Palestinian
Health Ministry in Gaza has announced
the Indonesian hospital no longer has a
fully functioning generator the
secondary one is providing limited power
but ventilation has stopped and the
distribution of medical oxygen is also
stopped meanwhile in the occupied West
Bank dozens of Israeli settlers have set
fire to shops and cars owned by
Palestinians from all this let's speak
to Charles Stratford who's in the D
Shara in the occupied West Bank where
one of the settler attacks is taking
place so Charles are things have things
quieten down
now yes Sammy I mean we arrived here I
suppose about 10 minutes ago and as we
arrived there was groups of youths
behind me there was a lot of tear gust
being fired at them but by what we
understand is the Israeli military that
are just at the end of that road and and
around the corner um we saw the kids
hurling stones and and other projectiles
towards the military we also saw
certainly evidence of live fire being uh
fired as well above their heads so the
situation certainly has calmed down in
the last 10 minutes or so but just to
give you a little bit of context as to
what's happened here it was this morning
where we began to see circulating on
social media a photograph of an upturned
gray vehicle a gray car with um two
people in it seemingly um who were
initially reported as being soldiers
who'd been killed but certainly they
were wearing green clothing suggesting
that they were the military we can't
confirm that it wouldn't be
inconceivable if indeed they were
settlers it's being reported in the
Israeli um Israeli media that one of
those people one of those men has
subsequently died and I suppose it was
about an hour two hours after that where
we started hearing lines drop about
Israeli settlers coming down from just
above on that Hill there is an Israeli
settlement there is an Israeli military
Camp close by to it next door in fact we
heard reports of settlers coming into
this town and attacking local properties
um burning cars which we've seen
pictures of um attacking um homes also
and the situation was pretty much was
beginning to get out of control we've
seen pictures of smoke rising from this
town as well we understand that those
fires and that attack property or the
fires from that attack property have
subsequently been extinguished but there
was also very interesting pictures of
the Israeli military soldiers actually
fighting with settlers trying to keep
the settlers back because of course the
charge normally amongst Palestinians and
this is true um because we have seen it
with our own eyes on multiple occasions
any Palestinian will tell you that
usually the Army basically stay back and
they accuse the army of basically
protecting the settlers in attacks like
this of course in a situation where we
have seeing nightly raids daily raids by
the Israeli military right the way
across the West Bank um after the
beginning of the war following those
Hammer attacks in Israel it's situations
like this that are very worrying indeed
uh according to um the local authorities
at least 32 people were injured here in
D Sherif over the last couple of hours
um and the red Cresent saying that an
ambulance tried to come into the town to
take some of the injured out and was
fired that by according to to to uh to
local authorities uh live fire and tear
gas but as you can see the situation
seems to be more under control now but
yeah situations like this are an
indication of just how tense the
situation is right the way across the
occupied West Bank Charles when you read
un reports they talk about increasing
attacks by settlers and talk to us about
whether there's a the concern about
official support for for these settler
attacks given statements from some
members of the government like bezel
smich who in March was quoted as saying
or calling for a Palestinian Town haa
needing to be wiped out and the
perception that creates of at least some
elements in the government giving their
backing to settler
attacks I think that's right and I think
that those kind of voices have increased
and have been given if you like for one
of a better word sort of greater
legitimacy in the eyes of many Israelis
um who are sympathetic potentially to
not to put too fine a point on it a
degree of Revenge following those Hamas
attacks on October the 7th we know that
the government is dominated by
right-wing parties it is a deeply
right-wing government so these kind of
opinions that are being expressed by
these politicians analysts will tell you
are only making the situation worse here
are giving effectively the green light
to some settlers to to attack
Palestinians um in these Villages across
the the occupied West Bank I mean over
the last couple of weeks since we've
been here and especially here in the
north of the occupied West Bank it's
Olive season it's Olive harvest season
every single day now you're getting
settlers coming down from their
settlements their outposts and attacking
uh people trying to to pick their crops
now we see this every year but it's dead
right that yes indeed these attacks are
increasing in frequency and increasing
in intensity um and yes it wouldn't be
at all inconceivable for you to say well
those kind of voices coming from
government coming from politicians with
those sort of ideas are in many ways
only encouraging these attacks to get
even worse so yeah um it is a very
worrying situation as I say because
these attacks happen on a daily basis
and that's another thing just with
respects to the military raids what
we've seen in the last couple of days is
increasingly Israeli military raids on
West Bank West Bank towns and Villages
actually occurring in daylight hours um
we already know that there have been
1,900 plus arrests of Palestinians since
October the 7th um 65 arrests at least
overnight 132 Palestinians at least
killed plus two in um in custody but
we're seeing these Israeli military
raids now happening during the daytime
which would suggest you know a greater
sense of confidence um a greater sense
of of of purpose if you like and so as
you can imagine there are hundreds of
thousands many more than that
Palestinians living in towns and
Villages across the West Bank that are
living in fear um and especially as I
say at night but now as as this
indicates this sort of thing is
happening in broad daylight all right
we'll leave it there thanks so much
Charles statford for your reporting
me